# Go GraphSpec

**Temporary repo to test publishing - will be integrated with the main GraphSpec library**

Defines:
* Go-native GraphSpec type
* Go library for migration to and from older model types
* [TODO] Go library for validation

## Usage
### Mac requirements
Building on macOS requires an environment configuration to allow specific linker flags used by the Kotlin/Native binary.

To prevent Go from blocking the `-force_load` flag the following environment variable needs to be set:
```
CGO_LDFLAGS_ALLOW="-Wl,-force_load,.*"
```

E.g. to run tests
```
CGO_LDFLAGS_ALLOW="-Wl,-force_load,.*" go test ./... 
```

#### Why is this needed?
* macOS (Darwin): Uses the Apple linker (ld64), which is aggressive at "dead-code stripping." `-Wl,-force_load` is used to ensure all Kotlin symbols are included in the final binary. For security, the Go toolchain blocks this specific flag by default unless it is added to the allowlist.

* Linux: Uses standard linkers (bfd or gold) that do not require "force-load" instructions to resolve these symbols. Consequently, no security allowlist is triggered.

### Importing
```
# Use SSH for git to avoid having to authenticate when fetching this library
git config --global url."git@github.com:".insteadOf "https://github.com/" 

# Ensure go can fetch org-private repos
export GOPRIVATE="github.com/neo-technology/*"

# Fetch Go library
go get github.com/neo-technology/go-graph-spec-test/go@vx.y.z
```

This package contains the autogenerated Go types that are equivalent to the source of truth Kotlin models.

## Generating Go Types

The GraphModel Go struct and associated structs are automatically generated from the Kotlin source of truth. They live
in the `go/models` package. The pipeline for generating these types is:

**Kotlin → JSON Schema** → **Go**

### Generating JSON Schema
```shell
./gradlew :generateGraphModelJsonSchema
```

JSON Schema is generated automatically from the ground-truth Kotlin and the `kotlinx-schema` library. The build command 
is within the `jvmMain` module, however it can be called via Gradle:

### Generating Go Types
```shell
./go/scripts/generate-go-models.sh
```
The actual Go types are generated using the [schemancer library](https://github.com/Southclaws/schemancer). This library
was chosen as it correctly handled polymorphism (e.g. mapping types). Other type radiation libraries such as modelina 
and quicktype condense down all polymorphic types into a single super struct.

Some temporary sanitising is needed to ensure there are no issues relating to Go enum variable names when generating 
Neo4jTypes. The script handles this.

